Let's go ahead and talk about navigation, as you know, navigation is an important components when
it comes to building applications because your applications need to be able to go from screen A to B
B to C, maybe back to A and so forth.
An example here is is this we need a way in which perhaps that when we click one button, we can go
to movie details will display the details of the movies that we are showing.
So traditionally we would use start activity and pass the destination activity from where we are and
so forth, and we could pass, of course, data around as well that way.
But this way of doing things, it only works for simple navigation cases, not for complex cases.
Because, as you know, we applications may be growing and there are other use cases that need to be
addressed, such as, you know, bottom nav A. And you have to control which bottom navigation is clicked,
which button.
And there is a lot of complication that happens when we are using just start activity as it is.
What is the solution?
Well, jetpack navigation component that is to remember Jetpack is this collection of tools and libraries
that enable us that enable us developers to build modern applications, make it possible to have concise
and consistent code across all the different devices in Android.
So within the jetpack library, if you will, there is navigation component.
So navigation component component is a set of modern tools and libraries for handling complex navigation
cases in Android.
Now, the navigation component has three major parts working together.
These are navigation graph.
NAF host, so navigation host and the navigation controller.
OK, let's take a look at something here.
So the way I like to visualize it in aviation component is as follows.
So we have a navigation component as the whole base component as you see here and inside, we have the
navigation controller and then inside of that, we have the nav host.
And then we have the knife graph.
So let's look at what enough controllers well enough controller is the central API of navigation component.
So here this class constructs navigation to occur.
This controller, as the name implies, control so instructs it has instructions to say go and navigate
to Route X and the navigation host.
As the name implies, it hosts each navigation graph item, meaning it swaps out each destination,
which in this case could be an activity or a composable in our case.
So that happens when, for instance, users navigate to a new screen navigation graph holds information
about destination or screen or composable.
It all means the same thing.
So essentially the navigation graph, this is where we have a graph containing all these nodes.
These nodes being the actual destination in this case, could be composable activities or fragments
and so forth.
Most importantly, this graph have connection.
These connection do carry information about these navigation, right?
I want to emphasize the nav graph.
It would look something like this, right?
In this case, we're talking about composable.
So the nav graph would have, for instance, detailed screen splash screen, but in homescreen right
and many other screens.
But most importantly, again, there would be more information about these nodes, how they are interacting
or how they could interact.
Right?
For instance, detail screen, for instance, in this case, my screen connects to a home screen and
home screen could be connected to a little screen or vice versa.
So this is the structure, that navigation component, which allows us to do a little bit more complex
navigation as opposed to the usual old school strike activity and pass information.
All right.
So now let's go to code and start putting together this structure.
Now, as we put together this structure, these navigation components structure in code.
I want you to keep in mind these diagrams that have shown you here.
It may seem a little bit confusing at first, I will confess, but I will try my best to relate.
What are we going to be doing to what I've shown you here in this diagram?
Or these diagrams, I should say, because there are a few of them.
OK, let's go back to our wonderful, beautiful, great coat.